- [Instructor] Now let's create a form
to be able to create a reservation.
We've already imported FormControl and FormGroup.
Now let's create a new variable
called roomSearchForm of the type FormGroup.
In the block ngOnInit, let's initialize the roomSearchForm.
Let's type in this.roomSearchForm
is equal to new FormGroup,
and then let's add in three form controls.
The first one called checkin,
and set it equal to a new form control instance.
Then another form control called checkout,
and then one last form control called roomNumber.
Now let's create four variables to store
the current values for checkin, checkout,
roomNumber, and price.
Now let's subscribe to roomSearchForm.valueChanges.
When we subscribe to roomSearchForm.valueChanges,
when elements in the front end UI change,
those changes are reflected here.
This lambda will allow us to perform actions
every time an element on the front end changes in that form.
So first let's set the current checkIn value
to the most recent change in the form field checkin.
Let's type in this.currentCheckInVal
is equal to form.checkin.
This field maps to this form control here on line 25,
the checkin form control.
Now let's do the same thing for the checkout value,
this.currentCheckOutVal is equal to form.checkout.
The next form element we're going to add
is a dropdown for room number.
The value that comes back to the back end
will be a pipe-separated string
containing the room number and the price.
So let's create a string array named roomValues,
and set that equal to form.roomNumber,
which returns a string, which we will split
on the pipe separator character.
Let's add in an if statement to make sure
form.roomNumber is populated.
Then let's populate the value of the current room number,
this.currentRoomNumber,
and let's set that to the value
of the first item in the room values array.
Let's cast it to a number,
and now we should have the room number available
to send to our post request.
We can do the same thing for the current price.
Grabbing the second value from the room values collection.